Adding featured images to blog posts / adding Go blog post (#647)
cyberark/secretless-broker: docs/_posts/2019-03-05-go.md

---
layout: post
title: "Getting GOing"
date: 2019-03-05 09:00:00 -0600
author: Sigal Sax
categories: blog
published: true
image: ship_it.jpg
thumb: ship_it.jpg
image-alt: Test post

> excerpt: "For the past year, we on the Cyberark Conjur team have been working on our latest open source project in Go..."

Reviewer: since this is the preview that will show on the Secretless blog page, can we revise it to be something that explains more about what it will discuss? something about our experience using Go for Secretless, maybe? the current wording sounds like we're introducing the project

Reviewer 2: Thought of the following:
"Why did we choose Go for our latest open source project, the Secretless Broker? Go gave us the perks of a low-level language while providing us with a toolset and native capabilities of a higher-level one."
OR
"Why we chose Go for our latest open source project, the Secretless Broker and how this decision has impacted our development process"

Reviewer: I like the second one better 👍

---

From the very beginning, the original Golang developers had a clear goal - retain the positive attributes of the common programming languages while building one that was readable, simple, and high performing. Go’s light-weight model for fast compilation, extensive toolset, and native capabilities are what have propelled it toward worldwide adoption and success.  With these modern features and being backed by Google, it is no wonder why open source projects such as Docker, Kubernetes, and some in Cyberark, are being built in Go.  

> ## Get GOing with Secretless  

Reviewer 2: Thinking of changing the title of this subsection b/c that's the name of the post

Reviewer: I think it's fine

Reviewer 2: 👍

For the past year, we on the Cyberark Conjur team have been working on our latest open source project in Go, the Secretless Broker. The Secretless Broker acts as a transparent proxy that injects the necessary credentials to target services directly, relieving client applications of the responsibility of handling sensitive data. Essentially, you can open a local connection to a credentialed resource without ever having to pass credentials to do so; all with Secretless. By removing the direct interaction between applications and target resources, the potential for a secret leak decreases significantly. 

> I was new to this project and especially new to the Go community, so naturally, I was curious why we made the design decision to build the Secretless Broker in Go. After working on features, participating in design discussions and debates during team standups, and having just attended the Go conference, it became clear why. We needed a system-level language that was as fast as the C-family but not as low level. Go gave us the perks of a low-level language while providing us with a toolset and native capabilities of a higher-level one.  

Reviewer: instead of "the Go conference" can  you say "the inaugural GopherCon Israel" and link to the conf?

Reviewer 2: see below changes

> I was new to this project and especially new to the Go community, so naturally, I was curious why we made the design decision to build the Secretless Broker in Go. After working on features, participating in design discussions and debates during team standups, and having just attended the Go conference, it became clear why. We needed a system-level language that was as fast as the C-family but not as low level. Go gave us the perks of a low-level language while providing us with a toolset and native capabilities of a higher-level one.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I was new to this project and especially new to the Go community, so naturally, I was curious why we made the design decision to build the Secretless Broker in Go. After working on features, participating in design discussions and debates during team stand-ups, and having just attended the inaugural [GopherCon Israel](https://www.gophercon.org.il/), it became clear why. We needed a system-level language that was as fast as the C-family but not as low level. Go gave us the perks of a low-level language while providing us with a toolset and native capabilities of a higher-level one.  
```

Reviewer: re-added since it's now outdated

It also became difficult to consistently format our code, especially as our codebase increased in size and complexity. To fix this common problem, we added the `golint` automated tool into our workflow. Code linters run source code against an applied set of stylistic and syntax rules, raising flags when this structure is broken.  Linting has been an indispensable productivity tool for writing code and has even sped up our code review process.  

Documentation is essential to growing and sustaining the community around our project. We add to and tweak our README and contributor guides to encourage end-user self-efficiency and success. This has proven to be a time-consuming undertaking because our codebase is constantly evolving and being refactored. To our benefit, Go offers the `godoc` documentation tool to dynamically create documentation. This tool parses the code, relevant comments, and structure to generate documentation that evolves as fast as our code does. 

## … and beyond the toolchain 

> With Go, we can produce statically linked binaries that fully contain our applications and run them on different platforms. This capability supported our decision to move to Docker-based development for our building and testing.  

Reviewer: I don't think I follow the logic here, because the previous sentence makes it sound like you don't need Docker

> This capability supported our decision to move to Docker-based development for our building and testing

Maybe this is a good place to mention that in the early stages of our project we're focusing on getting Secretless working well in Kubernetes and OpenShift, so we wanted to supply our solution in a secure container - but that's only part of the reason we use Docker.

Reviewer 2: Which sentence makes it sound like we don't need docker? About running binaries on different platforms? Adding mention that we wanted to get into K8s and Openshift to further strengthen the initial argument and drive to move to Docker

Reviewer 2: see below @izgeri

Reviewer 2: see below changes

> With Go, we can produce statically linked binaries that fully contain our applications and run them on different platforms. This capability supported our decision to move to Docker-based development for our building and testing.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At an early stage of the project, we have been focusing on providing a native and secure Secretless solution for Kubernetes and Openshift environments.  To accomplish this, we needed to wrap the project inside a portable, containerized environment. Go’s ability to produce statically linked binaries that can be run across different platforms allowed us to work towards this native solution and move to Docker-based development for our building and testing.
```
```suggestion
With Go, we can produce statically linked binaries that fully contain our applications and run them on different platforms. This capability supported our decision to move to Docker-based development for our building and testing. 
```

Reviewer 2: @typaulhus please wait for @izgeri approval on this one before merging into PR

Reviewer: I don't think this is accurate:
> To accomplish this, we needed to wrap the project inside a portable, containerized environment. Go’s ability to produce statically linked binaries that can be run across different platforms allowed us to work towards this native solution and move to Docker-based development for our building and testing.

I would prefer we say:
> To accomplish this, we wanted to deliver Secretless so that it could be deployed as a sidecar container. 

and then just merge the next paragraph into this one.

Secretless is consumed as a Linux binary that is packaged inside a Docker image. That way, customers can easily get up and running once they grab our image. We also use Docker for our CI pipeline to build and publish our site, check styling and links, and run tests. We host these processes in Docker to ensure they receive the proper Go versioning for testing and to isolate their environments to ensure they always run in the same (and expected) way. 

> When it comes to testing, I have mixed feelings about Docker. On one hand, without it, we cannot properly test our code and on the other, Docker has added an extra layer of complexity that makes our project difficult to understand and unapproachable. We find Docker beneficial because the alternative is a large assortment of messy Bash scripts and boilerplate code. Furthermore, contributors no longer need to fuss with tooling in order to configure their environment correctly - all they need is Docker and they are ready to get rolling. But with this assumption, we have added an extra pre-requisite that ultimately limits those who can contribute. In terms of testing norms, Docker-based development has forced us to break the standard Go testing conventions. Our tests have become custom to our project, wrapping the known Go tests with Docker-specific code. Consequently, it may become initially unclear to contributors how our tests work.  

Reviewer: it's worth digging into
> without it, we cannot properly test our code

people might rightfully wonder why? but we want to be able to run integration tests with Secretless running in its Docker container communicating with a database service, for example - and Docker is the easiest way to do this

Reviewer: Can we swap the order of the positive and negative comments in this paragraph to end on a positive note? To me it reads better as

> When it comes to testing, I have mixed feelings about Docker. ~On one hand, without it, we cannot properly test our code and on the other,~ Docker has added an extra layer of complexity that [may make] our project ~difficult to understand and unapproachable~ less approachable. [By requiring Docker] we have added an extra pre-requisite that ~ultimately limits~ may limit those who can contribute. In terms of testing norms, Docker-based development has forced us to break the standard Go testing conventions. Our tests have become custom to our project, wrapping the known Go tests with Docker-specific code. Consequently, it may become initially unclear to contributors how our tests work.
> However, in using Docker we are able to run integration tests that mimic a more realistic Secretless deployment, with Secretless running in a container and communicating with a database service, for example. We find Docker beneficial because the alternative is a large assortment of messy Bash scripts and boilerplate code. Furthermore, contributors no longer need to fuss with tooling in order to configure their environment correctly - all they need is Docker and they are ready to get rolling.

Reviewer 2: I also felt that ending on a negative note felt odd and happy you picked up on this as well.
@typaulhus please wait for @izgeri approval on this one before merging into PR

Reviewer 2: see below @izgeri

Reviewer 2: see below changes

> When it comes to testing, I have mixed feelings about Docker. On one hand, without it, we cannot properly test our code and on the other, Docker has added an extra layer of complexity that makes our project difficult to understand and unapproachable. We find Docker beneficial because the alternative is a large assortment of messy Bash scripts and boilerplate code. Furthermore, contributors no longer need to fuss with tooling in order to configure their environment correctly - all they need is Docker and they are ready to get rolling. But with this assumption, we have added an extra pre-requisite that ultimately limits those who can contribute. In terms of testing norms, Docker-based development has forced us to break the standard Go testing conventions. Our tests have become custom to our project, wrapping the known Go tests with Docker-specific code. Consequently, it may become initially unclear to contributors how our tests work.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When it comes to testing, I have mixed feelings about Docker. On one hand, without it, we cannot properly test our code and on the other, Docker has added an extra layer of complexity that makes our project difficult to understand and unapproachable. Secretless communicates with different services (database, etc), making it hard to construct the needed environments and infrastructure to run properly integration tests. Since Docker provides prebuilt images and ensures complete process isolation, it makes the setup process for these tests a breeze. We find Docker beneficial because the alternative is a large assortment of messy Bash scripts and boilerplate code. Furthermore, contributors no longer need to fuss with tooling in order to configure their environment correctly - all they need is Docker and they are ready to get rolling. But with this assumption, we have added an extra pre-requisite that ultimately limits those who can contribute. In terms of testing norms, Docker-based development has forced us to break the standard Go testing conventions. Our tests have become custom to our project, wrapping the known Go tests with Docker-specific code. Consequently, it may become initially unclear to contributors how our tests work.  
```

Reviewer 2: @typaulhus please wait for @izgeri approval on this one before merging into PR

> To curb these complexities and ensure a positive contributor experience, we are working to retain the integrity of Go testing through simplification and trying to provide better documentation. We hope this will eventually give our contributors the support and guidance they need to get involved and continue to contribute to our project.  

Reviewer: if you make changes like the ones above, this could become `To balance these complexities`

I am not sure what you mean by 
> to retain the integrity of Go testing through simplification

maybe you mean something like `to enable standard local Go development while still leveraging the benefits of Docker when appropriate, and trying to provide better documentation so it's easy to get started`

Reviewer 2: @typaulhus please wait for @izgeri approval on this one before merging into PR

Reviewer 2: see below changes

> To curb these complexities and ensure a positive contributor experience, we are working to retain the integrity of Go testing through simplification and trying to provide better documentation. We hope this will eventually give our contributors the support and guidance they need to get involved and continue to contribute to our project.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To balance these complexities and ensure a positive contributor experience, we are working to enable standard local development while still leveraging the benefits of Docker when appropriate, and trying to provide better documentation so it's easy to get started. We hope this will eventually give our contributors the support and guidance they need to get involved and continue to contribute to our project.  
```

Reviewer 2: @typaulhus please wait for @izgeri approval on this one before merging into PR

Reviewer: my only other caveat with this line is that we could drop `eventually` and it would still be good

## Summing Up 

Go is trending in the open source world and its support and community are only growing. For our project, we found Go’s native capabilities and supportive toolset to be specifically helpful as our project grew in complexity. Go’s sophistication and modern approach to computing are what have ultimately allowed us to stretch outside the conventions of a normal open source project.  

> Looking to contribute to [Secretless?](https://github.com/cyberark/secretless-broker) We would love nothing more!  

Reviewer: maybe link to our CONTRIBUTING.md for contributing info?

Author: ```suggestion
Looking to contribute to [Secretless?](https://github.com/cyberark/secretless-broker/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) We would love nothing more!  
```

Author: good call! Adding to PR updates.
